so again what we're trying to do here is
in our for our filter is when the button
is selected
we only want to show items due for
today when the button isn't selected
we want to show all items and also when
the application starts what we want to
do is show all items but I guess what
you could do there is you could have a
setting if you wanted to allow the user
to change that default condition but
we'll start by having that as a default
to always show all items every time the
application starts
so when we want to filter what our
control displays with javafx we
use a filtered list and just as we use
a sorted list we want to sort the
items and we can actually do both sorting
and filtering which will do here by
wrapping our filtered list with a sorted
list of course we created that sorted
list in the previous video
so this means that the list can be
filtered and then whatever remains in
the list after filtering is then sorted
so when we create a filtered list we have
to provide our filtering criteria which
tells which to do which tells the
list i should say which to do items we
want to keep and which ones we want to
discard
so in our case this translates to which
items we want to display which items we
want to hide
we're going to provide the criteria as a predicate which is a functional
interface in the jav.util.function package and we have to
implement the test method to test each
and every item for our filter which
you'll see me doing shortly
so I'm in the controller class and
because we want to use this
filtered list in our event handler
we want to declare it as an instance
variable going up to the top and add
that....
....
....so we then
want to go down into our initialize
method just above where we created our
sorted list variable when we want to put
the code in there so lets add the
code and we'll talk about it so....
....so we
need to provide the actual items
that we want to filter that's going to be...
....then I mentioned that we need
to use a predicate
so the way we do that is we just type....and you can see the code has
been added automatically with the to-do
item
notice the method has already been
added as well and we'll just close
it off
semicolon so the filtered list will call
the test method for every item in the
list that has been passed to do it now with test the
test method returns true
the item passes the filter on the other
hand if tests returns false the item
failes the filter and won't be kept so
when we want to show all the to do items
the test method simply needs to return
true because we want every item to pass
the test
we don't have to check the items
deadline in that case to determine
whether it passes or fails but when we
only want to show it to do items with a
deadline of today will return true for
items that have a deadline of today and
false for items that don't now these
days predicates are usually written
as lambda expressions but the clarity
and because we haven't really done much
with lambdas at this part of the course
i'm going to spell the test method out
manually so you can see that I've added
this code right before the sorted
list and we want to show all items and
application start up as I mention so we'll
change the false to true which would
give us a list of everything by default and
the difference here is now looking
at the code on line 86 instead of
passing the listed to do items to the sorted list constructor what we're going to
do instead is we're going to pass the
filtered list to the sorted list as i
mentioned whatever is left over after
the filtered list has been created is
then sorted so the first parameter
here is going to change to filtered
list
so we'll run this just to
confirm that everything is working and
nothing should have changed because
we're still using true for our test
method which means we've got all records
but we can confirm that we've got dates
sorted correctly it looks like
everything is being sorted as it
should be so that certainly still
working close down that run window
so now we've done that let's finish
coding out toggle buttons event
handler
because we need to do that depending on
whether it's been selected or not as
to what the filtering conditional will be so will go down there to the handle
filter button method so we'll start with
the else condition and if you recall
else is if the button is not selected
which means that we want to show
everything so all we need to do there is
put...
....and it's
going to be a new predicate...
.....creates the code for us and by
default because it's all items we want
to return true but the other code we
want here is the code if the button is
clicked and again what we want to do
there is return items with a deadline
of today only
so how will we do that we will simply
need to put filtered list....
....
....in this case will
be returned
it's not going to be true or false
because what we need to do is actually
look through each item and only show the
ones that are due today
so to do that we can do return....
....and that should return true if the to-do
item has got a deadline marked today
otherwise we'll return false if it's
true it will be included if it's false
it will be excluded so lets write our
application and see what happens
so again by default we've got all the
other times going to click on today's
items we get nothing and that's because
I haven't got a date
I haven't got to-do item of today's date turning it off again and they come back and what
we're trying to do also is
click on that to leave the filter on
let's add a new item and we'll call it....we'll set the
deadline to today's date
....
it's now showing up as you can see there
as todays date and we click it off
and still showing as of june 27
so you can see that our filter is
actually working quite well that's great
that it's all working and we could
probably enhance the code a little bit
on this because what we're doing as you
can see they're in our handle filter
button method is we creating a new
predicate each time we actually select
an option
let's just improve the code slightly by
not creating the predicate each time the
buttons pressed so the way to do that is
to come up to our to the top of this
file and what we want to do is we want to
add an instance of two predicates so the
first one is going to be....
....
...so that's our 2 predicates
initialized in the initialize method for
our controller then we'll change this
code here for the filtered list instead
of having the predicate code their we can
now just past the second or pass
the first predicate which is want all
items which cleans up the code a little bit
now we just need to go back to our event
handler down the bottom and do a similar
thing instead of having the anonymous
class getting created
we're just going to put the code.....
....
.....so let's just run it again make sure that
still works by default it's all items
clicking on today's items and we got
something going on there as you can see
I've clicked on todays items
it's not quite working is it
so when the user presses the toggle
button and the list is filtered the
selection state of the list view is reset so
that nothing is selected but the details
area and the deadline are displaying the
values for the item that was last
selected a little bit weird that's doing
that but we can fix this by selecting an
item after we finished filtering the
data
so in other words when the user toggles
from the filtered list to the full list
it would make sense to select whatever
was selected when they user press the
toggle button and we know the item will
still be in the list but when the user
toggles from the fullest to the filtered
list
we don't know whether the item that
was selected will still be in the list
we actually have to check and if it
isn't in the list we just have
to select the first item in the filtered list when it isn't an empty now we can
do all of that in our event handler
let's go back and fix it up
so the first line of our event handler will be....
....
so starting on the list of everything if
the list is everything their are we going to
put a filter list...
....
...that's in the case of
showing all our items so turning the
filter off in other words in the case
where we actually going into a filter
what we want to do is change the code a
little bit so after the predicate we
need to test first to see whether the
filtered list is empty so....
and it's quite possible that the filters
could be empty if there's no records
with a deadline of today so if
there aren't any
then what we're going to do is....
....otherwise we're going
put an else...
....
...
what we're going to do is to select the
first item to do list view....
.....let's
just try that and see if it works
now we have got a problem here and I
think I might have reverse things around the
wrong way just have a look at our
handler filter button
so the logic is if the filter toggle
button is selected
I think I've done this the wrong way around so
if the button is selected remember we
put the filter to be on
so I've actually changes this around the wrong
way so that should be.....
...so if they click the button that
means we want todays items
otherwise if the button isn't clicked we
want all items so I did that the wrong way....
....let's just try that and see if
that works again now
ok so got all the items selected by
default because we've set that in our
initialize method for the controller
now if I click on today's
that's better we can now see one item
and i'm going to highlight that one
take off today that's still highlighted
and if we do click on another one
like due last week
click on today's that disappears but if
we then click it again
we get the last one because it
disappeared said todays to do is the
one only one that was actually
selectable so we will just try that one more
time pick up dry cleaning todays items
we already got one now today's to do so if
we take that today's item off
that's going to be the one that selected
so that's working
so we've come to the end of this point
of coding our application now in a real
world application they would be much
more for us to do still
and of course we have lots more testing
to do as well
for example we haven't tried running the
application when no to do items exist now
will it crash
we don't know we haven't tested it what
else we also have to really verify the
user input
right now we're not really checking the
input fields when the user adds a new
to-do item if they don't provide a short
description or a deadline we go ahead
and add the to-do item anyway so with our
sorting and filtering still work in those
situations in those cases
so there's a lot more to do so you can
see but what we have done is we've
covered a lot of new concepts and learn
the essentials of writing a client
application using javafxs
now before we move on there's one of the
final thing so we added an exit item to
our menu but we never add
the event handler for it so let's go add the
event handler to our controller so we will
close this down and go back to our fxml code and find a menu item close down
this run window so we got our
menu text equals exit there
so let's add an on-action for that so....
.....we'll
go back to our controller and write the
code for that
let's just put that down the bottom and
it's going to be....
we should annotate that as well
and what I should have done is annotated
the handle filter button as well then
the actual code is just going to be
platform....
that's it that's the code so now when we
run this we should find when we click on
file and exit our application closes
down terminates gracefully
so file exit and our applications close them
so that's it that's our application lets now move on to the next video and
that one we are going to start looking
at some of the other features we haven't
already looked of javafx so see
you in that video